However, the game goes provide really good feedback–enemies consistently take full advantage of even the tiniest mistakes–and a very fast feedback cycle: when one of us dies, it only takes a few seconds to restart. So we learn very quickly what works and what doesn't. It is also clear we aren't missing anything: our characters start with all the gear and strength they will ever have throughout the game, so the game makes it very obvious that any progression in your character's abilities will come from the player's skills. Thus, we don't waste time looking for power-ups.

Progress is simply controlled by a linear map. You can't move into the next room until you clear the current one. If a door is unlocked, it suggests that you just need to get to the door without clearing the room.

This does not make the game easy. We die a lot. It took us 3 hours last night to get through a single room. The game is also widely known to be broken on this difficulty setting. But we are willing to persist because we get feedback on each attempt and we know we have everything we need to move forward, if only we can execute perfectly and maybe get lucky.

In constrast, Hollow Knight has a different setup. It is also
punishingly difficult, but your pause screen clearly indicates empty spaces for powers and upgrades you have yet to find. The most difficult areas and bosses are closed to you until you have the abilities you need to beat them. In some cases, you're welcome to try a harder section or boss before you have all the power-ups, but there are no penalties for failing in these cases (not even losing a life). Bosses all have a pattern, and if you can learn it, you can overcome them. Similar to chess, if you lose, you can see exactly where you messed up. But you can keep trying and save points are generally pretty close to bosses, especially the harder ones.

Progress in these games on the harder settings are entirely based on your willingness to keep trying. If you don't want to die a lot, don't play. But if you're willing to try, you can improve and succeed.
